---
layout: standard
title: Documentation
wrap_title: Copyright Policy
permalink: /docs/copyrightpolicy/
---

#### Copyright Attribution

Any contributions to the framework, melt, melted, libmvcp, and the core,
avformat, gtk2, normalize, resample, sdl, sdl2, sox, and xml modules must
assign copyright to "Meltytech, LLC." Otherwise, you can copyright it in
a name of your choosing unless, of course, you have integrated a fair
amount of code that someone else wrote and copyrighted.

The framework and libmvcp client libraries are covered under LGPLv2.1.
melted, melt, melted-console, and melted-client applications are covered
under GPLv2. Modules should strive to be LGPL to make them available
through the framework as LGPL.

All contributions to the framework, mlt++, libmvcp, and the core module
must be provided under the LGPL v2.1 license. All contributions to melt
and melted must be provided under the GPL v2 or v3 license. Modules
(plugins) can be offered under different licenses. If you are
contributing to an existing module, then you must use the same license
as the rest of the code in that module. If you are contributing to your
own, new module, you can license however you choose. However, at this
time, it must be a license compatible with Free Software to be included
in the repository at mltframework.org.

#### Setting Copyright on Appropriated Code

You do not want to be accused of copying someone's code and changing
copyright or license without permission. The license is straightforward:
you must retain the original author's license unless you receive
explicit permission. There are a few ways to approach the copyright
declaration depending upon the intermingling and changes. If you heavily
comingle original and new code or lightly modifiy the original code, you
can retain the original's copyright including the years, and then add
your copyright for the current year. If you can separate the MLT
integration from the core subroutines, then you can put the core
subroutines into a separate file with the original copyright and just
copyright the MLT integration code as your own. However, if you have
heavily modified the original code beyond nearly all recognition, you
can copyright it as your own and attribute the original author as
inspiration.
