---
layout: standard
title: Documentation
wrap_title: "Filter: opencv.tracker"
category: plugin
---
* TOC
{:toc}

## Plugin Information

title: OpenCV Motion Tracker  
description:   
version: 2  
creator: Jean-Baptiste Mardelle <jb@kdenlive.org>  
copyright: Jean-Baptiste Mardelle  
license: LGPLv2.1  
URL: [{"tags"=>["Video"], "description"=>"Track and follow an object in the video.", "notes"=>"If used in a non-linear workflow, this filter works best with two passes. First pass performs analysis and stores the result in a property. Parallel processing (real_time < -1 or > 1) is not supported for the first pass. Second pass simply applies the results to the image. If no analysis result is found, the filter does its best to work in real time. To analyse clip, you can use with melt, use 'melt ... -consumer xml:output.mlt all=1 real_time=-1'. Analysis data is stored in a \"results\" property. For the second pass, you can use output.mlt as the input.", "parameters"=>[{"identifier"=>"rect", "title"=>"Target Rect", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"The rectangle defining the object to be followed (from the 1st frame of the filter).", "required"=>false, "readonly"=>false, "mutable"=>false, "default"=>"0 0 50 50"}, {"identifier"=>"shape", "title"=>"Shape", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"The shape to be drawn around tracked object. 0 for a rectangle, 1 for an ellipse, 2 for an arrow.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>5, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"shape_width", "title"=>"Shape Width", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide if we want to display a shape around followed object during playback. 0 means no display, -1 means a filled shape and > 0 determines the border width.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>-1, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>1, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"shape_color", "title"=>"Shape Color", "type"=>"color", "description"=>"The color used to paint the shape around target object.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>4294967295, "mutable"=>true}, {"identifier"=>"blur", "title"=>"Blur", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide if we want to blur selected object. 0 means no blur, > 0 means blur intensity.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"blur_type", "title"=>"Blur Type", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide which blur method is used. 0 for median blur, 1 for gaussian blur.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"algo", "title"=>"Tracker Algorithm", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"The algorithm used for tracking (OpenCV name). Check OpenCV doc for full algorithm list, most commons are KCF, MIL, BOOSTING, TLD", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>"KCF", "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"steps", "title"=>"Keyframes spacing", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Defines the frequency of stored keyframes. A keyframe is created every steps frames.", "mutable"=>true, "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>5, "minimum"=>0}, {"identifier"=>"results", "title"=>"Analysis Results", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"Set after analysis. This is an animated rect following object designated with initial rect property.", "mutable"=>false, "readonly"=>true}]}]({"tags"=>["Video"], "description"=>"Track and follow an object in the video.", "notes"=>"If used in a non-linear workflow, this filter works best with two passes. First pass performs analysis and stores the result in a property. Parallel processing (real_time < -1 or > 1) is not supported for the first pass. Second pass simply applies the results to the image. If no analysis result is found, the filter does its best to work in real time. To analyse clip, you can use with melt, use 'melt ... -consumer xml:output.mlt all=1 real_time=-1'. Analysis data is stored in a \"results\" property. For the second pass, you can use output.mlt as the input.", "parameters"=>[{"identifier"=>"rect", "title"=>"Target Rect", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"The rectangle defining the object to be followed (from the 1st frame of the filter).", "required"=>false, "readonly"=>false, "mutable"=>false, "default"=>"0 0 50 50"}, {"identifier"=>"shape", "title"=>"Shape", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"The shape to be drawn around tracked object. 0 for a rectangle, 1 for an ellipse, 2 for an arrow.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>5, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"shape_width", "title"=>"Shape Width", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide if we want to display a shape around followed object during playback. 0 means no display, -1 means a filled shape and > 0 determines the border width.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>-1, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>1, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"shape_color", "title"=>"Shape Color", "type"=>"color", "description"=>"The color used to paint the shape around target object.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>4294967295, "mutable"=>true}, {"identifier"=>"blur", "title"=>"Blur", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide if we want to blur selected object. 0 means no blur, > 0 means blur intensity.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"blur_type", "title"=>"Blur Type", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Decide which blur method is used. 0 for median blur, 1 for gaussian blur.", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "minimum"=>0, "maximum"=>100, "default"=>0, "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"algo", "title"=>"Tracker Algorithm", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"The algorithm used for tracking (OpenCV name). Check OpenCV doc for full algorithm list, most commons are KCF, MIL, BOOSTING, TLD", "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>"KCF", "mutable"=>false}, {"identifier"=>"steps", "title"=>"Keyframes spacing", "type"=>"integer", "description"=>"Defines the frequency of stored keyframes. A keyframe is created every steps frames.", "mutable"=>true, "readonly"=>false, "required"=>false, "default"=>5, "minimum"=>0}, {"identifier"=>"results", "title"=>"Analysis Results", "type"=>"string", "description"=>"Set after analysis. This is an animated rect following object designated with initial rect property.", "mutable"=>false, "readonly"=>true}]})  
