---
layout: post
title: v6.4.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.4.0).
This is both a bugfix and enhancement release:

**Framework**

  * Added functions for multi-threaded slice-based image processing:
    mlt_slices_init, mlt_slices_close, and mlt_slices_run.
  * Added Mlt::Profile::is_valid().
  * Added MLT_DIRLIST_DELIMITER to mlt_types.h.
  * Renamed mlt++/config.h to mlt++/MltConfig.h.
  * Fixed mlt_properties_set_lcnumeric() on macOS.
  * Fixed address of Free Software Foundation in comment headers.

**Modules**

  * Added crop_to_fill property to composite transition.
  * Added sliced_composite property to composite transition.
  * Added peak and true peak properties to loudness_meter filter.
  * Added qtblend transition and filter to qt module.
  * Added ndi (NewTek NDI) module with producer and consumer.
  * Added opencv module with opencv_tracker filter.
  * Added line_spacing, strech, wrap_width, and wrap_type properties to
    pango producer.
  * Added oblique value for style property to pango producer.
  * Added fontmap-reload event to pango producer.
  * Added support for pkg-config to sdl module.
  * Added .kra (Krita Image) file name extension to loader.dict.
  * Improved performance of kdenlivetitle producer.
  * Improved decklink producer and consumer.
  * Improved accuracy of seeking on lossy compressed audio in
    avformat producer.
  * Improved mix transition using 32-bit floating point.
  * Fixed avfilter when image format changes.
  * Fixed loading relative file name in vidstab filter.
  * Fixed crash on Windows with avfilter.
  * Fixed parsing LADSPA_PATH with semi-colon delimiter on Windows.
  * Fixed parsing FREI0R_PATH with semi-colon delimiter on Windows.
  * Fixed reading relative path with backslash (Windows) in xml producer.
  * Fixed loading relative file name for av.file (avfilter).
  * Fixed loading multiple LADSPA plugins on some systems.
  * Fixed compile error when not configured with --enable-gpl.
  * Fixed loading in avfilter.lut3d in locales with comma decimal point.
  * Fixed a possible crash in resample filter.
  * Fixed alpha channel in kdenlivetitle producer.
  * Fixed possible crash in pixbuf and qimage producers.
  * Fixed count when counting down in count producer.

**Other**

  * Moved some avformat presets from lossless to new intermediate folder.
  * Added a YouTube avformat consumer preset.
  * Changed metadata.rb metadata publisher to output Markdown.
