---
layout: post
title: v6.8.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.8.0).

This version improves support for multi-channel audio and adds some new
manipulation functions to the mlt_animation API.

**Framework**

  * Added support for musl C library.
  * Added functions for audio channel layouts:
    - mlt_channel_layout_name()
    - mlt_channel_layout_id()
    - mlt_channel_layout_channels()
    - mlt_channel_layout_default()
  * Added channel_layout property to mlt_consumer.
  * Added mlt_channel_layout enum.
  * Disabled memory pooling by default and require compile macro USE_MLT_POOL
    to re-enable it.
  * Fixed reliability of keyframed properties serializing properly.
  * Fixed parsing non-animated string as an animation.
  * Added more functions to mlt_animation:
    - mlt_animation_key_set_type()
    - mlt_animation_key_set_frame()
    - Mlt::Animation::key_set_type()
    - Mlt::Animation::key_set_frame()

**Modules**

  * Fixed some crashes in qimage producer especially with alpha channel.
  * Fixed >2 channel audio output in the SDL consumers.
  * Fixed >2 channel audio output in the rtaudio consumer on Windows.
  * Fixed vorbis encoding with FFmpeg v3.4+.
  * qimage and qtext are now higher priority than gtk2 pixbuf and pango by the
    loader producer.
  * Added support for more channel counts to decklink consumer.
  * Added swresample filter based on libswresample from FFmpeg. This is now
    the preferred channel count normalizing filter used by the loader producer.
  * Fixed the strange "Undefined constant" and "Unable to parse option value"
    log messages in the the avformat consumer.
  * Fixed GIF and DPX writing in avformat consumer.
  * Reduced the memory usage of the affine transition and filters.
  * Fixed a crash in kdenlivetitle producer.
  * Fixed a crash in the rotoscoping filter.
  * Fixed frame rate reported in Matroska and WebM files produced by the
    avformat consumer.
  * Added sdl2_audio consumer.
  * Fixed alpha channel support for more pixel formats in the avformat producer.
  * Converted the affine transition to use mlt_rect and mlt_animation.
  * Fixed LADSPA plugins with mono channel audio.

**Other**

  * Fixed a melt command line parsing bug when argument supplied to -transition.
  * Fixed melt with SDL2 on Windows not using stdio and stderr.
  * Improved speed of the vp9 avformat consumer preset.
