---
layout: post
title: v6.6.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.6.0).

This version builds upon the previous release with performance improvements
using the sliced image processing framework. It also improves compatibility
with dependencies (FFmpeg, Qt 5, SDL 2, NDI, OpenCV, libebur128).

**Framework**
  * Added a thread pool to mlt_slices:
    - mlt_slices_run_normal()
    - mlt_slices_run_rr()
    - mlt_slices_run_fifo()
    - mlt_slices_count_normal()
    - mlt_slices_count_rr()
    - mlt_slices_count_fifo()
    - MLT_SLICES_COUNT environment variable
  * Added mlt_log_timings_now() to mlt_log.
  * Added mlt_image_yuv422p16 image format.
  * Added mlt_image_format_planes() and mlt_image_format_id() to mlt_frame.
  * Added mlt_service_disconnect_all_producers() and
    Mlt::Service::disconnect_all_producers()
  * Fixed accuracy of mlt_time_format conversions.
  * Fixed mlt_filter_get_progress() never reaching 1.0.
  * Fixed divide by zero in mlt_filter_get_progress().

**Modules**
  * Added sdl2 module!
  * Added sum property to mix transition for simple mixing without dynamics.
  * Added TLD and KCF tracking modes to opencv module.
  * Added CSV (comma-separated values) simple slideshow to pixbuf producer.
  * Added jack filter to jackrack module.
  * Added sliced processing to frei0r.
  * Added sliced processing to composite transition.
  * Added sliced processing to avformat producer pixel format conversion.
  * Added sliced processing to affine transition and filter.
  * Converted volume and pan filters to floating point.
  * Added rotate_center property to qtblend transition and filters.
  * Added meta.media.variable_frame_rate (VFR detection) to avformat producer.
  * Added support for external libebur128.
  * Updated internal libebur128 to latest.
  * Added 10-bit capture to decklink producer.
  * Added mlt_image_yuv422p16 to fieldorder filter, avcolour_space filter, and
    avformat consumer.
  * Added no_profile property to xml consumer.
  * Various ndi module fixes and improvements.
  * Fixed setting color_trc in multi consumer.
  * Fixed kdenlive title transparency.
  * Fixed incorrect alpha channel breaking freeze filter with qtblend transition.
  * Fixed transparency of pixbuf images with qtblend transition.
  * Fixed some crashes in new qtblend transition.
  * Fixed building qt module with C++11 for Qt 5.7+.
  * Fixed reporting accurage length for image sequences in qimage and pixbuf.
  * Fixed extra audio samples added to end of file in avformat consumer.
  * Fixed rawvideo export in avformat consumer.
  * Fixed multi-threading wtih FFmpeg 3.2+ in avformat module.
  * Fixed JPEG album art in avformat producer.
  * Removed filter_avresample (dropped by FFmpeg).
  * Stop flushing audio buffer in decklink consumer.
  * Fixed field order handling in decklink consumer.
  * Make composite transition field order aware.
  * Fixed nesting mlt_tractor with opengl module.
  * Fixed kdenlive titler crash on resized frame.

**Other**
  * Various memory leak fixes.
  * Fixed opening files with extended chars on Windows (framework and modules).
