---
layout: post
title: v6.12.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.12.0).

This version has many important fixes plus a few new filters and support for
encoding using VA-API.

###### Framework

  * Changed buffer property to be mutable and adaptive to speed property in
    mlt_consumer.
  * Changed macOS RELOCATABLE build to use standard app bundle layout:
    - lib/mlt      -> ../PlugIns/mlt
    - lib/frei0r-1 -> ../PlugIns/frei0r-1
    - lib/ladspa   -> ../PlugIns/ladspa
    - share/mlt    -> ../Resources/mlt
    - share/movit  -> ../Resources/movit
  * Fixed a_track of transitions matching deleted track in
    mlt_tractor_remove_track().
  * Fixed multi-thread race crash in mlt_properties_clear().
  * Fixed possiblle null pointer crash in mlt_property_get_rect() and
    mlt_property_get_time().
  * Fixed non-animated strings containing ';' or '=' in mlt_animation_parse().
  * Fixed crash in clear_property() with mlt_animation.

###### Modules

  * Added a generic text filter to the plus module.
  * Added a timer filter to the plus module.
  * Added audio timeout handling to sdl2 consumers.
  * Added spot_remove filter to the plus module.
  * Added dds, ico, and webp filename extensions for qimage producer.
  * Added support for color_range property in avformat consumer:
    "pc" or "jpeg" for full range, otherwise limited range.
  * Added a window property to the audiowaveform filter.
  * Added MM:SS.SS to the timer filter.
  * Added query string param "multi" to the xml producer to force using the
    multi consumer.
  * Improved WebP image support in avformat producer.
  * Integrated hwupload filter in avformat consumer if using VAAPI codec.
  * Changed count producer to use pango if qtext not available.
  * Changed qt moduled to not call XInitThreads()
  * Changed color producer to only set alpha on frame if rgb24a requested or
    not opaque.
  * Changed the xml producer to pass quality and performance parameters to the
    multi consumer.
  * Fixed sdl2_audio distortion (regression in v6.10.0).
  * Fixed dynamictext filter to not error on empty text.
  * Fixed dynamictext aliased (regression in v6.10.0).
  * Fixed qimage outputs premultiplied if scaled internally.
  * Fixed crash in cbrts consumer if running property was never set.
  * Fixed rendering edges of some typefaces in qtext producer.
  * Fixed qimage fails to load with wrong filename extension.
  * Fixed affine dark right and bottom edge artifacts regression in (v6.10.0).
  * Fixed support for vp8 and vp9 with alpha channel in avformat producer.
  * Fixed interpolation mode selection in qimage producer.
  * Fixed crash in qimage with alpha channel.
  * Fixed some AAC MP4 files start playing from middle in avformat producer.
  * Fixed crash in avfilter if initialization fails.
  * Fixed crash in mix when frame rate is very low.
  * Fixed crash on missing luma file in composite transition.
  * Fixed A/V sync on some files in avformat producer.
  * Fixed seeking on audio filter with album art in avformat producer.
  * Fixed colorspace conversion in avformat consumer.
  
###### Other

  * Added more avformat consumer presets:
    - alpha/Quicktime Animation
    - alpha/vp8
    - alpha/vp9
    - alpha/Ut Video
    - lossless/Ut Video
  * Added square video profiles:
    - square_1080p_30
    - square_1080p_60
  * Added support for nodejs to the swig bindings.
  * Changed configure script to require opencv module be explicitly enabled.
  * Numerous spelling fixes in source code and comments thanks to codespell.
