---
layout: post
title: v6.14.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.14.0).

This version is mostly fixes plus a few API additions and filters.

**Framework**

  * Added `mlt_profile_lumas_dir()`.
  * Added `mlt_frame_get_unique_properties()`.
  * Added `mlt_playlist_reorder()` and `Mlt::Playlist::reorder()`.
  * Added some new convenience constructors to mlt++
    - `Producer(mlt_profile profile, const char *id, const char *service = NULL)`
    - `Consumer(mlt_profile profile, const char *id , const char *service = NULL)`
    - `Transition(mlt_profile profile, const char *id, const char *arg = NULL)`
    - `Filter(mlt_profile profile, const char *id, const char *service = NULL)`
    - `Tractor(mlt_profile profile, char *id, char *arg = NULL)`
  * Added `Mlt::Transition::connect(Service&)`.
  * Added unit tests for mlt_playlist.
  * Fixed a crash on invalid transition track values in mlt_transition.
  * Fixed a deadlock regression in v6.12.0 of mlt_consumer when starting from
    a paused state (producer speed=0).

**Modules**

  * The avformat module now requires at least FFmpeg v2.4 or Libav 12.
  * Added `mask_start` and `mask_apply` filters to the core module.
  * Added `qtext` filter to qt module.
  * Changed `dynamictext` and `timer` filters to use `qtext`.
  * Fixed number of digits for seconds in `timer` filter.
  * Added `mlt_image_format` property to `color` producer.
  * Improved color accuracy of libswscale RGB->YUV conversion.
  * Fixed frei0r producers not working with tractor.
  * Fixed `decklink` consumer stalling on dropped frames.
  * Generate lumas for 16:9, 9:16 (vertical), and square aspect ratios.
  * Fixed crash in `qimage` when alpha_size is zero.
  * Fixed the mlt_consumer channels property not being passed to multi consumer.
  * Fixed the `shape` filter for full range color and crashes.
  * Converted the `shape` filter to use mlt_animation.
  * Added a `use_mix` property to the `shape` filter.
  * Fixed invert=1 and mix=100 gives wrong image in `shape` filter.
  * Fixed a possible free null pointer in the linsys `sdi` consumer.
  * Fixed using destroyed temporary object in `qimage`.
  * Fixed a possible null pointer dereference in the `spot_remover` filter.
  * Fixed memory leak on `swr_convert()` failure in `swresample` filter.
  * Fixed possible null pointer dereference in `affine` when not using `rect`.
  * Fixed loading image sequence on Windows in `qimage`.
  * Fixed some null pointer crashes using Movit `opengl` services.
  * Fixed `sdl2` consumer crashes during initialization on Linux or BSD.
  * Fixed distorted image using `melt_file`.
  * Fixed `qimage` build on Qt version < 5.5.
  * Added offset property to the `timer` filter.
  * Changed the `boxblur` `hori` & `vert` properties' minimum to 0.
  * Fixed crash in duplicate frame on rotated videos.
  * Added automatic scaling and padding to avfilter.
  * Fixed field order when encoding progressive as interlace.
  * Fixed frei0r plugins to use the number of slices from the `threads` property.
  * Fixed over compositing with transparent clips in `luma` transition.
  * Added sliced processing to dissolve-with-alpha using the `threads` property.
  * Added `createdate` keyword to `dynamictext` filter.
  * Fixed possible crash changing `audio_index` in `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed small memory leaks in `xml` consumer, `jackrack`, and `timewarp` producer.
  * Fixed compiling opencv module with OpenCV > 3.

**Other**

  * Added vertical video profiles:
    - vertical_hd_30
    - vertical_hd_60
  * Mlt++ now requires C++11 compiler support.
  * Added `--disable-windeploy` to configure to keep bin & lib folders on Windows.
  * Added support for consumer `in` & `out` to melt.
  * Fixed color accuracy of `lossless/Ut Video` preset and use pix_fmt yuv422p.
  * Fixed `lossless/H.264` preset to use crf=0.
  * Fixed compiling with mingw32.
  * Fixed build with Python 3.
