---
layout: post
title: v6.18.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.18.0).

This version is a general maintenance release with a bunch of fixes,
improvements, and additions.

**Framework**

  * Fixed some data races in `mlt_consumer`, `mlt_deque`, and `mlt_property`.
  * Fixed the mlt_events listener incorrect owner argument.
  * Added support for the `LC_ALL` environmant variable on Windows.
  * Fixed the argument to `mlt_factory_init()` not working on Windows.
  * Fixed `mlt_service_identify()` not reliable in some use cases.
  * Added some default and copy constructors and assignment operators to mlt++
    - `Filter()`
    - `Filter( const Filter &filter )`
    - `Filter& operator=( const Filter &filter )`
    - `Producer( const Producer &producer )`
    - `Producer& operator=( const Producer &producer )`
    - `Properties( const Properties &properties )`
    - `Properties& operator=( const Properties &properties )`
    - `Service( const Service &service )`
    - `Service& operator=( const Service &service )`
    - `Transition()`
    - `Transition( const Transition &transition )`
    - `Transition& operator=( const Transition &transition )`
  * Added mlt_luma_map:
    - `mlt_luma_map_init`
    - `mlt_luma_map_new`
    - `mlt_luma_map_render`
    - `mlt_luma_map_from_pgm`
    - `mlt_luma_map_from_yuv422`
  * Fixed preset overrides depend on the XML attribute order.
  * Fixed serializing an animated property with a new length.

**Modules**

  * Fixed interpolation in `rotoscoping` filter.
  * Fixed crop filter not working with `color` producer.
  * Fixed some data races in the `sdl` and `sdl2` consumers.
  * Fixed some data races in the `avformat` producer.
  * Added a `movit.flip` filter to the opengl module.
  * Fixed using filters on frei0r producers.
  * Added support for in and out attributes on the `consumer` xml element.
  * Fixed using an in point with the `multi` consumer.
  * Fixed `avfilter` fails if the image size changes.
  * Fixed showing superfluous decimals for seconds in the `timer` filter.
  * Stop serializing an invalid producer as an "INVALID" text producer in xml.
  * Fixed an access violation crash in `wave` filter.
  * Added the meta.media.color_range property to the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed full range yuv422p not converted correctly in the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed the `text` filter not working with `pango`.
  * Fixed a regression using `dynamictext` with `pango`.
  * Added a position property to `avfilter` for filters that need position info.
  * Fixed `avfilter.subtitles` not using the source position.
  * Added an `analyze` property to `vidstab` filter. When set, analysis only starts
    and the results file written if true.
  * Fixed crash combining the `affine` filter with the `shape` filter.
  * Added interlace detection from `AVCodecContext.field_order`.
  * Changed the `avformat` producer to not use the `rescale.interp` frame property.
    Previously, when `reacale.interp` == "nearest", it would relax seeking. Now, seek
    accuracy is reduced during trick play (rewind or fast forward).
  * Fixed swscale flags for auto-inserted scalers in `avfilter`.
  * Fixed a double free crash in `ladspa` filter on channel count mismatch.
  * Refactored the `composite` and `luma` transitions to use `mlt_luma_map`.
  * Refactored the `pgm` producer and `shape` filter to use `mlt_luma_map`.
  * Refactored the `lumas` module to use `mlt_luma_map`.
  * The `lumas` module is now disabled by default and must be explicitly enabled.
  * Added property animation to the `threshold` filter.
  * Added a `cairoblend_mode` filter to the frei0r module to affect a
    `frei0r.cairoblend` transition used to composite/blend tracks.
  * Added support for new vaapi options to the avformat consumer:
    - `connection_type`: x11 or drm
    - `driver`
    - `kernel_driver`
  * Fixed the `timewarp` producer with a colon in the filename.
  * Fixed a relative file name with a colon in it in the `xml` producer.
  * Fixed defaulting to album or poster art if there is another video stream.
  * Fixed parameter animation in frei0r plugins when using frame threads.
    This change also enables frame-threading for more plugins.
  * Improved the `qtblend` filter to not process alpha if no transparency.
  * Added a `background_color` property to the `qtblend` filter.
  * Fixed the `opencv.tracker` incorrect behavior on cut clips.
  * Changed `opencv.tracker` to store absolute frame numbers.
  * Fixed incorrect frame offset on render in `opencv.tracker`.
  * Add an `alpha_over` property to `luma` transition. This addresses a behavior
    regression in version 6.14.0.
  * Fixed `noimagecache` not working in the `avformat` producer.

**Other**

  * Mlt++ now requires C11 compiler support.
  * Fixed closing melt SDL2 window from window manager (i.e. close button).
  * Added `-repository` option to the melt command.
  * Added unit tests for `Mlt::Event`.
  * Fixed returning image data for Python 3.
  * Switch to python3 by default.
  * Updated the prores encoding presets to set vendor ID and colr atom.
  * Added a **CMake** build system. This is not yet prefered over the existing
    configure script and Makefiles and has less flexibility. It is a start and
    has limited support.
