---
layout: post
title: v6.22.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.22.0).


This version fixes bugs associated with the preview scaling introduced in the
previous version.

**Framework**

  * Added `mlt_properties_exists()` and `Mlt::Properties::property_exists()`.
  * Added mlt_audio C class with:
    - `mlt_audio_new()`
	- `mlt_audio_close()`
	- `mlt_audio_set_values()`
	- `mlt_audio_get_values()`
	- `mlt_audio_alloc_data()`
	- `mlt_audio_calculate_size()`
	- `mlt_audio_plane_count()`
	- `mlt_audio_plane_size()`
	- `mlt_audio_get_planes()`
	- `mlt_audio_shrink()`
	- `mlt_audio_reverse()`
	- `mlt_audio_copy()`
	- `mlt_audio_calculate_frame_samples()`
	- `mlt_audio_calculate_samples_to_position()`
	- `mlt_audio_channel_layout_name()`
	- `mlt_audio_channel_layout_id()`
	- `mlt_audio_channel_layout_channels()`
	- `mlt_audio_channel_layout_default()`
  * Added `Mlt::Audio` C++ class with:
    - `Mlt::Audio::Audio()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::Audio(mlt_audio_s*)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::~Audio()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::data()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_data(void*)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::frequency()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_frequency(int)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::format()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_format(mlt_audio_format)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::samples()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_samples(int)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::channels()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_channels(int)`
	- `Mlt::Audio::layout()`
	- `Mlt::Audio::set_layout(mlt_channel_layout)`
  * Fixed drop-frame timecode for 59.94 fps.
  * Fixed crash on null pointer passed to `mlt_consumer_stop()`.

**Modules**

  * Fixed frei0r transitions with preview scaling.
  * Fixed affine `ox` and `oy` properties incorrect with preview scaling.
  * Fixed a crash and incorrect preview scaling with more than one `affine`
    filter active on the same frame.
  * Fixed preview scaling for the `rotoscoping` filter.
  * Moved some services from `gtk2` module to a new `gdk` module:
    - gtkrescale filter
	- pango producer
	- pixbuf producer
  * **Deprecated** the `gtk2` module and no longer enabled by default.
  * **Deprecated** the `linsys` (DVEO SDI) module.
  * Added the `sample_fmt` property to the `avformat` consumer.
  * Fixed a possible segfault in the `mix` transition.
  * Removed support for text keyframes to the `text` and `qtext` filters
    to fix regression on strings containing '='.
  * Disable frame-threading with `bigsh0t`, `distort0r`, and `medians` frei0r plugins.
  * Added `meta.media.%d.stream.projection` property the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed a crash with with filters not supporting preview scale in frei0r
    transitions.
  * Fix artifacts in `luma` transition and `affine` filter with frame-threading.
  * Stop including `title="Anonymous Submission"` in `xml` consumer.
  * Fixed a crash in `opencv.tracker` filter.
  * Fixed a crash in `composite` transition if luma file fails to load.
  * Added validations in `opengl` module to prevent asserts in Movit.
  * Fixed building with OpenCV 4.
  * Changed `avformat` producer to accept a '?' in argument/resource property
    by escaping it as '\?'.
  * Changed the background property of the `affine` filter to be mutable.
  * Fixed changing the `audio_index` property in the `avformat` producer.
  * Changed `resample` filter to more resiliant to frequency changes.
  * Added a video_delay property to the `sdl2_audio` and `rtaudio` consumers.
  * Add millisecond options to the `timer` filter.
  * Fixed the in point handling for the `timewarp` producer.
  * Fixed some audio gaps and sync issues with the `rbpitch` filter and `timewarp`
    pitch compensation.
  * Fixed a possible crash caused by `producer` consumer.
  * Changed `avformat` consumer to set AVOption `color_primaries` based on the
    MLT colorspace if not already set as property.
  * Fixed crop right on image with odd width skews image in `crop` filter.
  * Fixed incorrect silence value for unsigned 8-bit audio in `avformat` producer.
  * Changed `qimage` to use Qt's internal orientation detection instead of libexif.
  * Reduced clicks in mix transition by silencing buffers on discontinuity.
  * Improved A/V synchronization in `swresample` and `resample` filters - also reduces audio clicks.
  * Improved speed of the `qimage` producer.
  * Fixed incorrect color using `libx264rgb` in `avformat` consumer.
  * Fixed relative paths for `avfilter`s that have the `filename` option.
  * Fixed some `avfilter`s dropping the alpha channel: smartblur, vaguedenoiser.
  * Improved performance of the `resize` filter.
  * Fixed an `affine` filter inside a transition was always nearest neighbor
    interpolation.
  * Changed the `lift_gamma_gain` filter to use round values up.

**Other**

  * Fixed melt option `-group` applies to an implicit consumer.
  * Added `-quiet` option to melt (implies `-silent` but more so).
  * CMake build improvments adding modules:
    - gdk
	- jackrack
	- lumas
	- resample
	- sox
	- vorbis
  * Added avformat consumer presets:
    - `Slide-Deck-H264`
	- `Slide-Deck-HEVC`
  * Removed "intra=1" from some avformat presets (use g=1 for intra only):
    - `intermediate/MPEG-2`
	- `intermediate/MPEG-4`
	- `lossless/H.264`
  * Fixed using Qt, Movit, and WebVfx in the official docker image:  
    https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/mltframework/melt  
	**IMPORTANT**: it now requires `docker run` with the `--init` option.
