---
layout: post
title: v6.20.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.20.0).

This version adds support for low resolution
[Preview Scaling]({{ "/docs/previewscaling/" | prepend: site.baseurl | prepend: site.url }})
and adds a module based on the
[Rubber Band Library](https://breakfastquay.com/rubberband/)
for audio pitch-shifting.
An official docker image is now available on Docker Hub as
[mltframework/melt](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/mltframework/melt).

**Framework**

* Added consumer scaling:
  - `mlt_profile_scale_width()`
  - `mlt_profile_scale_height()`
  - `Mlt::Profile::scale_width()`
  - `Mlt::Profile::scale_height()`
  - support for a double `scale` property to melt and the xml producer
* Fixed `mlt_properties_set()` with an invalid expression.
* Added new functions that do not evaluate expressions:
  - `mlt_properties_set_string()`
  - `Mlt::Properties::set_string()`
* Improved the service-caching heuristic in mlt_multitrack.
* Fixed possible crashes in `mlt_playlist get_frame()` and `mlt_filter_process()`.

**Modules**

* Added the `rubberband` module with a `rbpitch` filter.
* Added pitch compensation to `timewarp` producer.
* Added the `invert_scale` property to the `affine` filter and transition.
* Added the `reverse` property to the `shape` filter.
* Added support for text keyframes to the `text` and `qtext` filters.
* Added support for the CSRT and MOSSE algorithms in `opencv.tracker` filter.
* Fixed a crash on empty `algo` property in the `opencv.tracker` filter.
* Changed `vorbis` module to no longer be deprecated.
* Improved colorspace conversions in the `avformat` module.
* Fixed audio artifacts on initial seek to in point in `avformat` producer.
* Fixed the colorspace of the cached image in `avformat` producer.
* Fixed white video flashes on property changes in the `qtext` filter.
* Fixed a crash in the `rotoscoping` filter with large spline deviations.
* Fixed a crash in the `sdi` consumer if the driver is not loaded.
* Improved support for a video clip as luma producer to the `luma` transition.
* Fixed a crash in the `matte` transition.
* Fixed a crash when using `invert` property =1 in the `composite` transition.

**Other**

* Added a Dockerfile and integrated docker build into Travis CI.
* Added more avformat consumer presets:
  - intermediate/DNxHR-HQ
  - intermediate/ProRes HQ
  - ALAC
  - FLAC
* Fixed some parameters in the XDCAM and D10 avformat presets.
* Fixed link failure on some CPU architectures.
