---
layout: post
title: v7.0.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.0.0).


This is a major new version that breaks API to add a major new feature to the
framework: retiming. This is accomplished through new classes `mlt_chain` and
`mlt_link`. And since we are breaking API we decided to clean house by
removing deprecations and switching the build system over entirely to CMake.
For more information see our
[migration guide]({{ "/docs/v7migration/" | prepend: site.baseurl }}).
More documentation about the new chain and link classes is still pending.

#### Framework

  * Added `mlt_chain` and `Mlt::Chain` classes.
  * Added `mlt_link` and `Mlt::Link` classes.
  * Added a `link` value to service `type` in the service metadata schema.
  * Added a boolean `animation` parameter attribute to the service metadata schema.
  * Added `mlt_animation_shift_frame()` and `Mlt::Animation::shift_frames()`.
  * Added `mlt_animation_get_string()`.
  * Fixed using a stale cached property animation string.
  * Added `mlt_image` and `Mlt::Image` classes.
  * Remove legacy "height + 1" workaround in image allocation.
  * Fixed a crash on setting `timewarp` speed higher than 23x.
  * Added `mlt_audio_silence()`.
  * Removed `mlt_image_opengl`.
  * Replaced variadic arguments in `mlt_events` with new `mlt_event_data` APIs.
  * Removed `mlt_geometry` APIs.
  * Renamed `mlt_image_rgb24a` as `mlt_image_rgba`.
  * Renamed `mlt_image_rgb24` to `mlt_image_rgb`.
  * Renamed `mlt_image_glsl` to `mlt_image_movit`.
  * Renamed `mlt_image_glsl_texture` to `mlt_image_opengl_texture`.
  * Removed virtual function `mlt_frame::get_alpha_mask()`.
  * Removed `mlt_frame_get_alpha_mask()`.
  * Removed deprecated functions:
    - `mlt_sample_calculator`
    - `mlt_sample_calculator_to_now`
    - `mlt_channel_layout_name`
    - `mlt_channel_layout_id`
    - `mlt_channel_layout_channels`
    - `mlt_channel_layout_default`
    - `mlt_slices_init`
    - `mlt_slices_close`
    - `mlt_slices_run`
    - `mlt_playlist_move_region`
    - `Mlt::Playlist::move_region`
  * Fixed a rounding error calculating display aspect ratio in `mlt_profile_from_producer()`.

#### Modules

  * Added a `timeremap` link to the core module with animatable `map` property.
    (Speed can increase or decrease between keyframes including reverse.)
  * Added `chain` and `link` XML elements to `xml` module.
  * Added "meta.media.has_b_frames" property to `avformat` producer.
  * Removed deprecated modules:
    - `dv`
    - `gtk2` (not gdk)
    - `kino`
    - `linsys`
    - `lumas`
    - `motion_est`
    - `swfdec`
    - `videostab`
  * Removed the following services:
    - `data_feed` filter
    - `data_show` filter
    - `region` filter and transition
    - `sdl_image`
  * Converted filters to use new `mlt_image` class:
    - `brightness`
    - `imageconver`
    - `mirror`
    - `spot_remover`
  * Deprecated the `audiowave` filter.
  * Added the ability to build the `jackrack` module without JACK to get only
    LADSPA producers and filters.
  * Deprecated `start` and `end` properties for the following filters:
    - `brightness`
    - `panner`
    - `boxblur`
    - `wave`
    - `volume`
  * Removed deprecated `font` property from `pango` producer.
  * Improved album art (attached pic) detection in `avformat` producer.
  * Improved the `resample` filter to have less artifacts and use less memory.

#### Other

  * CMake: nearly complete rewrite.
  * Removed the old configure bash scripts and Makefiles.
  * Added `-chain` and `-link` options to `melt` command line.

