---
layout: post
title: v6.26.1 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v6.26.1).


This is the last planned release of major version 6. Version 7 will be released
soon and introduce some minor API breakage while removing deprecations.
The main new feature in this version is hardware-accellerated decoding!
However, this is a basic implementation: It always returns the uncompressed
video to the CPU memory with no pipelining to filters. Even when coupled with
hardware encoding in the avformat consumer it must transfer the video. Also,
there is no automatic software/CPU fallback and no resource management.

## Modules

  * Added support for `hwaccel` query string parameter to the `avformat`
    producer. It accepts the following values:  
    vaapi (Linux/BSD), cuda (Linux), videotoolbox (macOS), d3d11va (Windows), dxva2 (Windows)  
    The query string delimiter is a backslash followed by a question mark: `\?`.
    The backslash prevents interpreting the question mark from being a part of the file name.
    You must preface the file name with either `avformat:` or `file:` to make it work with `melt` (but
    not XML or via API because melt interprets name=value as a MLT property if there is no colon before equals).
  * Added support for `hwaccel_device` query string parameter to the `avformat`
    producer. This is only used with vaapi (device path) and cuda, d3d11va, or
    dxva (number).
  * Improved the usage of image slice threading in `frei0r`. This only applies
    when `threads`=0 and only works with some frei0r plugins that you must decide
    yourself.
  * Added an ellipse item to `kdenlivetitle` producer.
  * Added support for PNG and GIF as album art in the `avformat` producer.
  * Added BT.2020 color space metadata to the `avformat` producer.
  * Resolved many FFmpeg deprecations in the `avformat` producer making it possible to support AV1 decoding.
  * Added a `strobe` fitler that periodically makes the alpha channel transparent.
  * Added a new `typewriter` text filter (currently only works with the
    kdenlivetitle producer).
  * Improved sound quality for lower pitch shifts in `rbpitch`.
  * Fixed speed of trick play in the `jack`, `rtaudio`, `sdl_audio`, and `sdl2_audio` consumers.
  * Fixed matrix for independent channels in `swresample` filter.
  * Fixed leading zeros for the `timer` filter.
  * Fixed flickering using `affine` with a `luma` transition.
  * Fixed a crash using RGBA images in the `qimage` producer (regression in v6.22.0).
  * Fixed `brightness` filter misbehaves on `alpha` > 1.
  * Fixed writing `flac` format file does not set its duration in the `avformat` consumer.
  * Fixed an infinite loop in `rbpitch` filter.
  * Fixed `ttl` in the `qimage` producer.
  * Fixed building with OpenCV 4.5
  * Fixed artifacts with multiple HTML `qtext` filters and frame threading.
  * Deprecated the `start` and `end` properties on the following (use property
    animation instead):
    - brightness
    - panner
    - boxblur
    - wave
    - volume
  * Deprecated the following services:
    - data_show
    - region
    - transition filter
    - autotrack_rectangle
    - motion_est
    - slowmotion

## Other

  * CMake:
    - Fixed building without SWIG.
    - Added many "MOD_..." options to explictly disable modules.
    - Added src/tests and the option `BUILD_TESTING`, which defaults off.
    - All dependency checks moved to top level CMakeLists.txt.
    - Install melt man page.
    - Install oldfilm SVG files.
    - Added src/examples.
    - Install framework/metaschema.yaml.
    - Fixed `plusgpl` datadir.
    - Added all swwig/ languages.
    - Increased C++ standard to C++14.
  * Added an `AV1` encoding preset.
  * Improved documentation of the requirement for C11.
  * The minimum version of FFmpeg is v4.0 and Libav is no longer supported.