---
layout: post
title: v7.2.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.2.0).

This is the first major maintenance release for the new major version 7
rendering it much more production ready. Plus there are a few nice new features.

#### Framework

  * Added support for `mlt_properties` as a child of `mlt_properties`
    including XML (de)serialization:
    - `mlt_property_set_properties()`
    - `mlt_property_get_properties()`
    - `mlt_properties_set_properties()`
    - `mlt_properties_get_properties()`
    - `mlt_properties_get_properties_at)(`
    - `Mlt::Properties::set()`
    - `Mlt::Properties::get_props()`
    - `Mlt::Properties::get_props_at()`
    Applications can use this to store structured data in its own namespace,
    for example "shotcut:markers". And modules could use this for hierarchical
    parameters.
  * Fixed crash in `mlt_transition` upon inserting or removing a track.
  * Stopped loading `mlt_profile` until needed in `mlt_chain` creation.

#### Modules

  * Added filter `gpstext` that is similar to `dynamictext` based on data in a
    GPX file.
  * Added speed parameter to `timer` filter.
  * Added WebP presets for `avformat` consumer.
  * Added a pixelate option to the `opencv_tracker` filter's `blur` property.
  * Fixed `center_bias` of `crop` filter not working with `use_profile`.
  * Fixed some missing RGB `mlt_image_format` renames after change in v7.0.0.
    This primarily affected presets and service metadata.
  * Fixed a crash when changing preview scaling in `timeremap` link.
  * Fixes problems due to adding redundant normalize filters upon loading a
    producer from XML.
  * Ensure filters added by the `loader` producer always come first in list.
  * Fixed a crash using `shape` and `affine` filters together on `color` producer.
  * Fixed a crash when a `vidstab` file fails to open.
  * Changed `vidstab` filter to save its file in ASCII text mode.
  * Fixed a clang LTO error in the `decklink` module.
  * Fixed a video decoding regression on some videos in the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed a crash in the `audiowaveform` filter.
  * Fixed loading a relative filename from XML for `mask_start` with `shape`.
  * Fixed "#filedate#" in `dynamictext` filter when used with `timeremap` link.
  * Fixed `timer` filter's new `speed` property interaction with `start` delay.
  * Fixed a crash with YUYV422 (YUY2) input in `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed data race condition in `timeremap` link.
  * Fixed compiling `avformat` module with FFmpeg git beyond v4.4 with
    many deprecations removed.
  * Fixed alpha channel size calculation in `brightness` filter.
  * Restore legacy tracker and the new DaSiam tracker for OpenCV >= 4.5.3 in the
    `opencv_tracker` filter.
  * Fixed a crash in `opencv_tracker` on `shape_width` = 0.
  * Fixed incorrect handling of in and out points and duration in the
    `opencv_tracker` filter.
  * Fixed the `composite` transition leaking left border of an image on the
    right side on uneven width.
  * Fixed a problem handling some UTF-8 in thhe `typerwriter` filter.

#### Other

  * Added support for the `RELOCATABLE` CMake option for Linux or BSD build.