---
layout: post
title: v7.4.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.4.0).

This main highlight of this version is property animation for avfilter!

#### Framework

  * Added more constructors and assignment operators in C++ wrapper:
    - `Mlt::Filter::Filter(Mlt::Filter*)`
    - `Mlt::Link::Link(Mlt::Link*)`
    - `Mlt::Link::Link(Mlt::Service&)`
    - `Mlt::Link::Link(Mlt::Link&)`
    - `Mlt::Link::Link(Mlt::Link const&)`
    - `Mlt::Link::operator=(Mlt::Link const&)`
    - `Mlt::Service::Service(Mlt::Service*)`
  * Fixed serialized animation in `mlt_animation_serialize_cut_tf()` and
    `mlt_animation_serialize_cut()` to include a trailing keyframe value.

#### Modules

  * Added property animation for `avfilter` filters.  
    This only works for numeric parameters, but many libavfilter options that
    have a type string are actually numeric in nature but accept a string
    expression.
  * Added `rotate` property to `avformat` producer to override orientation.
  * Changed `jackrack` module to silence false LADSPA plugin loading errors.
  * Fixed a crash in the `oldfilm` filter when using preview scaling.
  * Fixed `timeremap` link distorts audio when speed is zero.
  * Added nautical mile and knot units of measure to the `gpstext` filter.
  * Fixed full range color handling with embedded tractor (e.g. same track
    transition).
  * Fixed device capture in `avformat` producer regression in version 7.2.0.
  * Fixed a crash in the `matte` transition.