---
layout: post
title: v7.10.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.10.0).

The highlight of this version is support for Qt 6.

#### Framework
  * Fixed some unguarded null pointers.
  * Added `MLT_REPOSITORY_DENY` environment variable to skip loading a module (colon delimited list of file names without extension, for example "libmltqt").
  * Fixed frame corruption with one frame transition.
  * Changed so-called test-card frame with audio to show a checkerboard:
    - Added `mlt_image_fill_checkerboard()`
    - Added `mlt_image_fill_white()`
  * Preserve the producer `creation_time` property when creating a chain.
  * Added `mlt_image_rgba_opaque()`.
  * Fixed getting a property as a timecode or clock value with 24 or 23.98 fps in `mlt_property.c`.

#### Modules
  * Added support for Qt 6:
    - Added `MOD_QT6` and `BUILD_TESTS_WITH_QT6` CMake options.
    - Allow installing building and installing both Qt 5 & 6 modules.
    - Avoid loading both Qt 5 & 6 modules by preferring Qt 5 (use MLT_REPOSITORY_DENY=libmltqt to block Qt 5 and use Qt 6).
    - This is limited to the `qt` module for now and not `glaxnimate` (still a work-in-progress).
  * Added support for WebP animation to `qimage` producer.
  * Added `gps_graphic` filter to the `qt` module.
  * Added the `format` property in each producer's get_frame method to indicate the producer's default/preferred mlt_image_format to facilitate an optimization in the `qtblend` transition when the B frame is opaque and has the same aspect ratio.
  * Added property animation to all audio visualization filters in the `qt` module.
  * Improved TGA format detection in `qimage` filter.
  * Fixed `qtblend` transition has incorrect scaling with consumer scaling.
  * Fixed an case of incorrect alpha scaling in `qtblend` transition.
  * Fixed `luma` transition not updated when `resource` property changes.
  * Added the `alpha_operation` property to the `shape` filter.
  * Updated the `glaxnimate` git submodule to version 0.5.1.
  * Fixed `lines` filter in `oldfilm` regression in v7.6.0.
  * Added `dbpeak` property to the `audiolevel` filter in dB.
  * Fixed memory leak using some frei0r plugins in conjunction with an `affine` that animates the `rect` property.

#### Other

  * Fixed building for musl.
  * Fixed underlinking iconv in `gdk` module on MinGW.
  * Fixed SWIG CMake options can overwrite each other.
  * Fixed SWIG 4 no longer generates a `mlt.php`.