---
layout: post
title: v7.6.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.6.0).


This version adds image slice-threading to many filters and full support for
full range color. All inputs are normalized to and processed at
the range specified by the consumer property `color_range` that defaults to
tv/mpeg (limited).

#### Framework
  * Added `Mlt::Animation::next_key()` and `previous_key()` with error checking.
  * Fixed the `moduledir` and `mltdatadir` variables in the pkg-config file.
  * Removed calling `setlocale()` in `mlt_factory_init()` (moved to `melt`
    option `-setlocale`).
  * Added `mlt_properties_copy()` and `Mlt::Properties::copy()`.
  * Changed some primarily internal property names to consolidate on "consumer."
    as a prefix convention for all consumer properties copied to `mlt_frame`s.
  * Added consumer property `deinterlacer` to replace deprecated `deinterlace_method`.
  * Fixed full range color from producer to consumer.
  * Added `mlt_slices_size_slice()` helper function.
  * Fixed choppy playback due to large values in `frame_rate_num` or
    `frame_rate_den` in `mlt_consumer`.
  * Added performance optimization for a single slice in `mlt_slices`.

#### Modules
  * Added `audiolevelgraph` video filter to the `qt` module.
  * Added property `segment_gap` to the `audiospectrum` video filter.
  * Added `segments` property to the `audiolevelgraph` and `audiospectrum` filters.
  * Fixed loading image sequence with extended UTF-8 characters in the
    name of a folder for the `qimage` producer.
  * Fixed a crash in `avformat` producer if the `rotate` property is set after
    the first frame is fetched.
  * Added the `invert_mask` property to the `shape` video filter.
  * Changed `avformat` producer to normalize frame rates very close to
    non-integer broadcast frames 24/1.001, 30/1.001, and 60/1.001.
  * Converted the `chroma` and `chroma_hold` filters' `key` property to a proper
    color type.
  * Added slice threading to:
    - `avformat` producer (with FFmpeg v5)
    - `swsscale` (with FFmpeg v5)
    - `lift_gamma_gain`
    - `shape`
    - `charcoal`
    - `vignette`
    - `wave`
    - `threshold`
    - `tcolor`
    - `sepia`
    - `mirror`
    - `invert`
    - `grain`
    - `lines`
    - `spot_remover`
  * Improved the speed of the `oldfilm` filter.
  * Added a faster `box_blur` filter to the core module and deprecated the
    `boxblur` filter in the kdenlive module.
  * Fixed preview scaling for the `avfilter.gblur` filter.
  * Fixed incorrect text overlap in `kdenlivetitle` producer.
  * Improved audio synchronization in `avformat` when playing in reverse.
  * Added much more service metadata (documentation).
  * Fixed full range 10-bit video input in `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed full range color handling in:
    - `avformat` producer
    - `avcolor_space`
    - `brightness`
    - `resize`
    - `luma` transition
    - `movit.convert`
    - `charcoal`
    - `invert`
    - `shape`
  * Fixed identifying unsupported colorspaces in `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed preserving the alpha channel in the `avfilter.fspp` filter.

#### Other
  - Some CMake fixes.
  - Added `dumb-init` to the docker (no need to remember `docker run --init`).
  