---
layout: post
title: v7.18.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.20.0).

#### Framework

  * Fixed "blank" in a playlist does not have audio normalization filters.
  * Fixed serializing `mlt_color` transparent black as "#00000000" when the property was set using an integer or `mlt_color`.
  * Fixed `mlt_chain_set_source()` would always fetch a frame from the producer even if it has "meta.media.frame_rate_num" and "meta.media.frame_rate_den" properties making things slow.
  * Fixed `Mlt::Chain` leaking memory.

#### Modules

  * Added a `blank` producer to the `core` module.
  * Added keywords to `gpstext` filter:
    - `#gps_cadence#`
    - `#gps_grade_degrees#`
    - `#gps_grade_percentage#`
    - `#gps_temperature#`
  * Added some `color_style`s to the `gpsgraphic` filter:
    - 10 = color by speed (max 100 km/h)
    - 11 = color by grade (max 90 degrees)
    - 12 = color by grade (max 20 degrees)
  * Added more unit formats to `legend_unit` property of `gpsgraphic` filter:
    - `mmin` or `m/min`
    - `ftmin` or `ft/min`
  * Added keywords to `dynamictext` filter:
    - `#basename#`
    - `#filename#`
  * Fixed installing `filter_audioseam.yml`.
  * Added an `avlink` link to the `avformat` module for FFmpeg filters that can benefit from future frames such as `adeclick`.
  * Added the `preserve_alpha` property to the `box_blur` filter.
  * Fixed loading service metadata for the `qt6` and `glaxnimate-qt6` modules.
  * Fixed a crash when changing the `rotate` property in `avformat` producer with interlace video.
  * Add `astream` and `vstream` properties to avformat producer. Unlike `audio_index` and `video_index` are absolute indices across the entire array of streams regardless their type, these new 0-based properties are relative to the type audio or video. For example, astream=1 is the second audio stream.
  * Fixed a possible crash in the `avformat` producer's `mlt_producer_probe` virtual function.
  * Updated the `glaxnimate` module to version 0.5.4.
  * Fixed the `sdl2` consumer crashing with the Linux radeonsi_dri driver and showing only all black with the Linux `nvidia` driver.

#### Other

  * Fix compiling on Android (not supported by the core developers).
  * Changed the `avformat` consumer `FLAC` preset to use the `flac` format.
  * Fixed the `melt` <kbd>Shift+H</kbd> and <kbd>Shift+L</kbd> keyboard shortcuts when the SDL2 window has focus.
