---
layout: post
title: v7.14.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.14.0).

#### Framework

  * Added functions to get detailed info about a producer more directly
    (without having to get a frame and get its image in the case of
    avformat producer, for example):
    - `mlt_producer_probe()`
    - `Mlt::Producer::probe()`
  * Added functions to add normalizer links to chains (based on a
    `chain_loader.ini` configuration data file:
    - `mlt_chain_attach_normalizers()`
    - `Mlt::Chain::attach_normalizers()`
  * Changed `locale_t` to `mlt_locale_t` to avoid redefinition on some systems
    (e.g. clang/llvm on win32).
  * Fixed the value provided with event "consumer-thread-join" to be
    `mlt_event_data_thread` as documented.
  * Fixed `mlt_image_format_planes()` for `mlt_image_yuv420p`.

#### Modules

  * Added a `swresample` link to the avformat module.
  * Added a `resample` link to the resample module.
  * Fixed compatibility of avformat module with FFmpeg version 6.
  * Fixed `rotoscoping` filter when request image size different than profile.
  * Fixed `timeremap` link breaking `crop` filter.
  * Fixed audio/video sync in `avformat` producer when the video start time is
    not 0.
  * Improved seeking on a WMA audio file in `avformat` producer.
  * Optimization to set `AVDISCARD_ALL` on disinterested streams in `avformat`
    producer.
  * Added separate demuxing thread in `avformat` producer.
  * Added `filtergraph` property to the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed filter `movit.convert`'s CPU image converter in `mlt_tractor` and
    `mlt_frame_clone()`.
  * Fixed using `movit` module with mlt_chain.
  * Fixed 10-bit full range YUV color input with Movit.
  * Fixed aspect ratio issues in `qtblend` filter transform.
  * Fixed the `movit.luma` transition.
  * Changed the `qglsl` consumer to use an OpenGL core profile version 3.2
    context to make it compatible with recent Movit versions.
  * Upgraded `glaxnimate` git submodule to version 0.5.2.
  * Fixed `xml` producer incorrectly adds a path prefix to a `consumer`
    producer.
  * Fixed using `opencv.tracker` filter with `mlt_chain`.
  * Added interlace-aware chroma conversion from mlt_image_yuv422 to yuv420p
    in the `avformat` consumer.
  * Added the `speed_map` property to the `timeremap` link.
  * Fixed the `loader` producer not injecting the `consumer` producer when a
    `xml` producer changes the frame rate.
  * Fixed 'loader' producer corrupts the profile colorspace and description
    when it injects a `consumer` producer.
  * Added a `loader-nogl` producer to the core module based on `loader` but
    prevents adding `movit`-based filters.
  * Changed `count` producer to take an optional string argument with the name
    of a loader producer.
  * Fixed `yadif` deinterlace not working in a mlt_chain.
  * Fixed the bob, weave, greedy, onefield `deinterlace` filter methods on
    x86-64 architecture.

#### Other

  * Fixed SWIG python shadow functions for mlt7.
  * Added CMake build option `MOD_GLAXNIMATE_QT6`.
