---
layout: post
title: v7.16.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.16.0).

#### Framework

  * Added a `chain_normalizers.ini` to the data directory.
  * Added New C functions to support deinterlacer links:
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_name()`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_id()`
    - `mlt_link_filter_init()`
    - `mlt_link_filter_metadata()`
    - `mlt_cache_put_frame_audio()`
    - `mlt_cache_put_frame_image()`
    - `mlt_frame_clone_audio()`
    - `mlt_frame_clone_image()`
  * Added support for loading a filter as a link via `mlt_link_filter_init()`.
  * Added enum `mlt_deinterlacer` with:
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_none`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_onefield`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_linearblend`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_weave`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_bob`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_greedy`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_yadif_nospatial`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_yadif`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_bwdif`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_estdif`
    - `mlt_deinterlacer_invalid`
  * Added new 10-bit YUV members to enum `mlt_image_format`:
    - `mlt_image_yuv420p10`
    - `mlt_image_yuv444p10`
  * Fixed a deadlock and improved quality of start of playback when
    `mlt_consumer` property `prefill` is greater than 1.
  * Fixed a couple of data races in `mlt_events` and `mlt_consumer`.
  * Fixed a crash in `mlt_frame_clone()` with movit and the `mask_start` filter.

#### Modules

  * Fixed regressions in version 7.14.0:
    - memory and thread count usage in `swresample` and `resample` links
    - automatic profile support in `melt`
    - crash in `count` producer
  * Upgraded the `glaxnimate` git submodule to version 0.5.3.
  * Added avformat/`avdeinterlace` (default) and xine/`deinterlace` links.
  * Fixed deinterlacing in the `multi` and `qglsl` consumers.
  * Added 10-bit video support to `movit.convert` filter.
  * Several things in the `avformat` producer:
    - Fixed artifacts decoding raw FLAC audio.
    - Fixed a potential crash on `mlt_producer_probe()`.
    - Fixed seeking on music with album art.
    - Fixed possible infinite loop on end-of-file.
    - Fixed a potential deadlock.
    - Fixed chroma bleeding on interlaced yuv420p.
    - Fixed `color_range` or `force_full_range` sometimes not working.
    - Fixed `autorotate` property not working with a chain.
    - Added audio caching.
    - Deprecated the `mute_on_pause` property.
  * Fixed FFmpeg version 6 compilation error.
  * Fixed rendering the text outline in `kdenlivetitle` producer.
  * Fixed `'movit.rect` property animation.
  * Fixed corrupt video in `crop` filter when `mlt_image_yuv420p` requested.
  * Fixed possible null pointer crashes in some audio filters:
    - `audiolevel`
    - `volume`
    - `loudness`
  * Fixed a possible roi assert crash in `opencv.tracker` filter.
  * Added support for "Nano" `algo` to the `opencv.tracker` filter.
  * Added the property `fix_background_alpha` to the `luma` transition.

### Other

  * Added `-query links` to `melt` command line.
  * Added `avformat` consumer presets for 10-bit video:
    - AV1
    - DNxHR-HQ
    - FFV1
    - ProRes 422
    - ProRes 444
    - ProRes HQ
    - x264-high10
    - x265-main10
  * Added a `clang-format` target to CMake and reformatted all code.
  * Added warnings as errors with some exceptions to CMake with `Debug`
    build type and gcc.
  * Fixed numerous warnings throughout the code.
