---
layout: post
title: v7.26.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.26.0).

This release adds support for subtitles and LV2 &amp; VST2 audio plugins.

#### Framework
  * Fixed a double-free crash in `Mlt::Service::profile()`.

#### Modules
  * Fixes and improvements to the `avformat` producer:
    - Changed to prefer `r_frame_rate` over `avg_frame_rate`.
    - Fixed `lowres` if set too high.
    - Fixed `audio_index=all`.
    - Fixed `variable_frame_rate` incorrectly set true on 59.94 fps in Matroska.
    - Improved performance with intra-only video and reducing the frame rate.
    - Fixed mono audio handling regression on FFmpeg 7.
    - Fixed audio samples may be dropped unexpectly esp. with uncompressed.
  * Fixed `movit` transitions with a non-movit filter on one of its inputs.
  * Fixed duration in the `glaxnimate` producer off by one frame.
  * Added `dropshadow` filter to the `qt` module.
  * Fixed resetting animation in `kdenlivetitle` producer.
  * Added support for LV2 and VST2 plugins in the `jackrack` module.
  * Fixed crash using `av.declick` audio filter on FFmpeg 7.
  * Added `subtitle` filter and producer and `subtitle_feed` filter to the `plus` module.
  * Added subtitle encoding to the `avformat` consumer (new properties beginning with "subtitle.").
  * Fixed `alang` in the the `avformat` consumer.
  * Added `#gps_power` keyword to the `gpstext` filter.
  * Fixed tab handling in the `kdenlivetitle` producer.

#### Other
  * Added 8- and 10-bit encode presets for SVT-AV1.
  * Fixed building on OpenBSD.
  * Fixed building on musl libc.
  * Fixed consumer properties not updating the automatic profile on the `melt` command line.
  * Added `-loglevel` command line option to `melt`.
