---
layout: post
title: v7.24.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.24.0).

The highlight of this release is support for FFmpeg 7 and Ambsonic audio.

#### Framework
  * Fixed a small memory leak in `mlt_repository`.
  * Fixed a small memory leak in `MltPushConsumer` C++ class.
  * Block connecting a null producer to a service.
  * Include `locale.h` on any GNU libc platform.

#### Modules
  * Added a new `spatialaudio` module with filters:
    - `ambisonic-decoder`
    - `ambisonic-encoder`
  * Fixed building with FFmpeg 7.
  * Fixed text keywords do not work with non-ASCII filenames on Windows:
    - `pixbuf` producer
    - `opencv_tracker` filter
    - `dynamictext` filter
    - `qimage` producer
  * Added "meta.media.aspect_ratio" property to the `avformat` producer.
  * Fixed `distort` property not working in `movit.rect` filter.
  * Fixed frames dropping or repeating in the `multi` consumer.
  * Fixed the `dynamic_loudness` filter maximizing audio gain.
  * Fixed distortion in the `mono` filter.
  * Also check for `WAYLAND_DISPLAY` to detect a graphical session in the `qt`
    and `glaxnimate` modules.
  * Fixed the `wave` filter distorts if `wave` = 1 with preview scaling.
  * Added the read-only `meta.media.%u.codec.layout` property to `avformat` producer.
  * Set the `channel_layout` property on the frame for the `noise` and `tone`
    audio producers.
  * Fixed `outline` maximum for the `text` and `dynamictext` filters.

#### Other
  * Fixed crash when using `-chain` from `melt`.
  * Fixed a small memory leak on Windows `fopen()`.
