---
layout: post
title: v7.30.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.30.0).

#### Framework

  * Fixed `Mlt::Producer::set_creation_time()` not exported on i686.
  * Fixed `Mlt::Properties::set(int64_t)` symbol version.
  * Fixed `mlt_factory_init()` on Linux/BSD may fail to initialize when
    compiled with `-DRELOCATABLE`.
  * Added generic non-drop-frame timecode in `mlt_property.c`.
    Previously, it was only done for 30000/1001 and 60000/1001 frame rates,
    but 24000/1001 is especially important as well.
  * Added support for MLT XML embedded in chains.
    This, along with `xml-clip` producer handles mismatching frame rate
    between parent and child producers and facilites time-affecting links on
    the child.
  * Added `mlt_image_full_range(const char *color_range)` where any of the
    following strings return true (1): `full`, `jpeg`, `pc`.

#### Modules

  * Added `xml-clip` producer.
  * Fixed link `in` and `out` properties arenot serialized in the `xml` consumer.
  * Added `hslprimaries` and `hslrange` filters to the `plus` module.
  * Added a `gradientmap` filter to the `plus` module.
  * Fixed `avfilter` audio filters with FFmpeg 7.
  * Fixed incorrect frame rate for AVCHD (and possibly others) in `avformat`.
  * Fixed `window_id` property in consumer `sdl2` by using
    `SDL_CreateWindowFrom()`, especially important for embedding in GTK+ or Qt.
  * Fixed text not rendering in transition `vqm` since Qt 6.
  * Added `decimals` keyword to `gpstext` filter and move `RAW` keyword check.
  * Fixed `time_offset` property handling in `gpstext` filter.
  * Fixed reading and writing SRT files with unicode in the path.
  * Fixed `subtitle_feed` filter on producers with an in point > 0.
  * Fixed opaque alpha channels become translucent in `luma` transition.
  * Fixed a crash in the `mix` transition with `consumer` producer.
  * Fixed `freeze` filter freezing too much.
  * Fixed `avfilter.fillborders` with preview scaling.
  * Fixed non-proportional scaling in `qtblend` transition and filter.
  * Fixed `avfilter` color distortion with `mlt_image_rgb` and `mlt_image_rgba`.
  * Extended support for `colorspace=2020` consumer property and the BT.2020
    colorspace in the `avformat` producer and consumer.
    This does not imply HDR, which is signaled through a `color_trc` property.
  * Added support for `mlt_image_yuv420p10`, `mlt_image_yuv444p10`, and
    `mlt_image_yuv422p16` in `avfilter`, `swscale`, and `rescale` filters.
    This facilitates using these pixel formats end-to-end when using only
    FFmpeg producers, certain avfilters, and `avformat` consumer.
    This means it is possible to do 10-bit end-to-end on the CPU when being
    careful to select compatible components and options to avoid conversions.
    One can pass-through HDR; however, you must set the `color_trc` and
    `pix_fmt` properties on the `avformat` consumer (see `ffmpeg -h full` for
    these values). The `avformat` consumer automatically converts MLT
    `colorspace` (integer value) to FFmpeg's `colorspace` and `color_primaries`
    (unless explicit) options.

#### Other

  * Cleaned up the examples in `src/swig`.
  * Changed the `x264-medium` preset to a higher quality.

