---
layout: post
title: v7.34.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.34.1).

This versions adds 10-bit video processing on the CPU, but you must ensure you
are using compatible filters and transitions.

#### Framework

  - Added `mlt_image_rgba64` format. This change touched core, avformat, and qt modules as well.
  - Added `mlt_color_trc`, `mlt_color_primaries`, and more `mlt_colorspace`s along with functions:
    * `mlt_image_color_trc_name`
    * `mlt_image_color_trc_id`
    * `mlt_image_colorspace_name`
    * `mlt_image_colorspace_id`
    * `mlt_image_color_pri_name`
    * `mlt_image_color_pri_id`
  - Fixed some minor memory leaks with `cppcheck`.

#### Modules

  - Added rgba and rgba64 formats to the `luma` transition.
  - Added rgba64 format to `affine` filter and transition.
  - Added rgba64 format to the `qtblend` transition.
  - Added support for FFmpeg 8 to the `avformat` module.
  - Fixed audio `panner` filter for 5.1 channel layout.
  - Fixed converting 10-bit full to limited range in `avformat` producer (regression in v7.30.0).
  - Fixed shadow not working for multi-line template titles in `kdenlivetitle` producer.
  - Fixed `mask_apply` filter with custom transition.
  - Added `input_chmask` & `output_chmask` properties to `mono` filter.
  - Added `channel_mask` property to LADSPA/LV2/VST2 filters.
  - Added `channel_mask` to the `volume` filter.
  - Added an `outline` video filter.
  - Fixed a deadlock on image with a `%` in the name in `qimage` producer.
  - Added scrubbing to the `decklink` consumer.
  - Fixed `&amp;` not decoded to `&` in the `xml` producer.
  - Fixed converting BT.709 to BT.2020 in the `avformat` module.
  - Fixed building a `ladspa` module without JACK as dependency.
  - Deprecate a JACK Rack XML file in the `jackrack` and `ladspa` modules.
  - Added filter `qtblend_mode`.
  - Fixed incorrect alpha channel breaking optimization of `qtblend`.
  - Fixed pixel format gbrap (Ut Video with alpha channel) in the `avformat` producer.
  - Fixed `opencv_tracker` filter on cut playlist clips.
  - Fixed warning about missing color range for `avfilter`s that use it (e.g. `avfilter.colorspace`).
  - Added typewriter properties to the `qtext` filter.
  - Fixed color distortion or a crash if using hwaccel with orientation rotation in `avformat` producer.

#### Other

  - Enable Qt 6 and disable Qt 5 modules in CMake by default.
  - Disable the SDL1 module in CMake by default.
  - Changed `melt` now exits with 1 if the producer is invalid.
  - Various changes to work with MSVC compiler.
  - Changed SVT-AV1 encode presets to VBR for Opus audio.
  - Fixed initializing Qt on the main thread in `melt`.
  - Documented the `-progress2` option for `melt`.
  - Increased the minimum C++ version to C++20.
  - Converted many modules to use CMake `find_package()`.
  - Added `libgen.c` and `libgen.h` for MSVC.
