---
layout: post
title: v7.36.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.36.0).

This version adds image processing in linear color on the CPU (previously only Movit).
Plus, it extends 10-bit video processing on the CPU to many more services.

#### Framework
  - Added `mlt_image_default_colorspace()`
  - Added `mlt_image_default_trc()`
  - Added `mlt_image_default_primaries()`
  - Added `mlt_color_convert_trc()`
  - Added the `mlt_consumer` property `mlt_color_trc` to drive a new
    `color_transform` normalizer filter. This sets the color transfer
    function to use for image/video effects. It is beneficial and
    correct to use linear color for any pixel mixing whether for blending
    or interpolation.
  - Removed `atexit(mlt_factory_close)` in `mlt_factory_init()`. Close the
    factory yourself if you feel the need to (not generally needed when
    exiting a process).
  - Prevent possible crash in `mlt_service_connect_producer()`.
  - Added `mlt_profile_is_valid()` and `Mlt::Profile::is_valid()`.
  - Fixed crash on invalid profile (CVE-2025-65834) in:
    * `mlt_consumer_start()`
    * `mlt_factory_producer()`
    * `xml` producer

#### Modules
  - Drop support for Qt 5.
  - Fixed bad color in `luma` transition's dissolve (regression in v7.34.0).
  - Fixed HLG HDR broken in `decklink` consumer (regression in v7.34.0).
  - Fixed warnings when flushing audio in the `avformat` consumer.
  - Added support for `hwaccel=vulkan` to the `avformat` producer.
  - Added a `color_transform` normalizer filter to the core module to convert
    all image/video producers to and from linear color. It is abstract in the
    core module and drives the following filters:
    * `avfilter.zscale`
    * `sws_colortransform`
    * `avfilter.scale`
  - Added filter `sws_colortransform` that is more efficient than `avfilter.swscale`
    but requires FFmpeg 8.
  - Changed the default property values of the `null` consumer:
    * `real_time`:  -1
    * `terminate_on_pause`: 1
  - Changed the `luma` and `movit.luma` transitions to progress linearly with
    linear `color_trc`.
  - Fixed the alpha channel dropped by the `xml-clip` producer.
  - Added `mlt_image_rgba64` format to:
    * `avcolor_space` filter
    * `avdeinterlace` filter
    * `affine` filter and transition
    * `audiolevelgraph` filter
    * `audiospectrum` filter
    * `audiowaveform` filter
    * `autofade` filter
    * `avformat` producer and consumers
    * `box_blur` filter
    * `brightness` filter
    * `pillar_echo` filter
    * `color` producer
    * `dropshadow` filter
    * `dynamictext` filter (when used with `qtext`)
    * `frei0r.alpha0ps` filter
    * `frei0r.alphagrad` filter
    * `frei0r.alphaspot` filter
    * `frei0r.bluescreen0r` filter
    * `frei0r.select0r` filter
    * `frei0r.transparency` filter
    * `gpsgraphic` filter
    * `gpstext` filter
    * `gradientmap` filter
    * `hslprimaries` filter
    * `hslrange` filter
    * `kdenlivetitle` producer
    * `lift_gamma_gain` filter
    * `lightshow` filter
    * `mask_apply` (when used with `qtblend`)
    * `movit.convert` filter
    * `outline` filter
    * `qtblend` filter and transition
    * `qtcrop` filter
    * `qtext` producer
    * `shape` filter
    * `spot_remover` filter
    * `strobe` filter
    * `subtitle` filter (when used with `qtext`)
    * `swscale` filter
    * `text` filter (when used with `qtext`)
    * `timeremap` link
    * `timer` filter (when used with `qtext`)
    * `vqm` transition
  - Changed the `mask_apply` filter default transition to `qtblend`.
  - Removed the maximum for the `alpha` property on the `brightness` filter
    so that you can _increase_ the opacity of an existing alpha channel.
  - Fixed background image scaling in the `gpsgraphic` filter.
  - Fix audio artifacts with pcm_s24le in mkv in `avformat` producer.

#### Other
  - Removed bitrate and quality limits in the vp9 and webm `avformat` presets.
  - Fixed melt on Windows not reading file path/name with extended characters
    (regression in v7.34.0).
  - Fixed building the ruby bindings with Ruby 3.0.
  - More fixes for MSVC.
  - Removed `win32/strptime.c` and replaced with Qt functions.
  - Stop showing `melt` usage on error exit.
