---
layout: post
title: v7.40.0 released
category: blog
---
You can [download it from GitHub](https://github.com/mltframework/mlt/releases/tag/v7.40.0).

The highlights of this version are expanded compatibility and capabilities for OpenFX
plugins and a new audio noise reduction filter and link.

#### Framework

  - Some fixes for `win32_fopen()`.
  - Security fixes for time formatting in `mlt_properties`.
  - Security fix to disable deprecated `ante` & `post` properties in `mlc_consumer`.  
  - Added more properties to `metaschema.yaml` (new version 7.2):
    - `audio_formats`
    - `video_formats`
    - `layout-hint`
    - `hide-label`
    - `normalized_default`

#### Modules

  - Added `audio_formats` and `image_formats` properties to all service metadata.
  - Many improvements to the `openfx` module:
    - fixed potential overflows in `snprintf()` calls
    - multi-threading: frame- and slice-based
    - many compatibility fixes
    - added support for 2D and 3D numeric parameters (uses `mlt_rect`)
    - fixed preview scaling
    - fixed the default for `choice` (`values` in `metaschema.yaml`) parameters
    - fixed some effects rendering upside-down.
  - Added `rnnoise` module for background audio noise reduction (depends on librnnoise).
  - Added HDR10 SMPTE ST 2084 (PQ) properties to the `decklink` consumer:
    - `hdr_red_x`
    - `hdr_red_y`
    - `hdr_green_x`
    - `hdr_green_y`
    - `hdr_blue_x`
    - `hdr_blue_y`
    - `hdr_white_x`
    - `hdr_white_y`
    - `hdr_max_luminance`
    - `hdr_min_luminance`
    - `hdr_max_cll`
    - `hdr_max_fall`
  - Added the `.lot` file name extension for the `loader` producer to use `glaxnimate`.
  - Visual quality improvements for animations in the `qtblend` filter and transition.
  - Updated `spatialaudio` module to the libspatialaudio 0.4.0 API.
  - Fixed a signed int overflow in `pgm` producer.
  - MSVC compatibility fixes for `kdenlivetitle` producer and `frei0r`, `plusgpl`, `jackrack`, `openfx`, `rtaudio`, & `resample` modules.
  - Fixed choppy playback and deadlocks in the `decklink` consumer.
  - Fixed libopus audio encoder warning about `frame_duration` in `avformat` consumer.
  - Fixed crash in `avformat` consumer with unsupported `attached_pic` format.
  - Fixed plugin bundles for `vst2` filters on macOS.
  - Fixed the frame position in the `consumer` producer.
  - Hardened string formatting for metadata properties in the `vorbis` producer.
  - Fixed `typewriter` in `qtext` filter lags when rate properties changed.

#### Other

  - Skip Qt preflight for XML-only consumers in `melt`.

